---
title: Untitled Thread
source_url: https://forum.mikrotik.com/viewtopic.php?f=13&t=213857&p=1118791#p1118791
crawled_date: 2025-02-02T21:37:44.587915
section: mikrotik_forum
type: forum_thread
---

### Author: [SOLVED]Sat Jan 11, 2025 4:38 pm
Date: Unknown

```
/ip firewall nataddaction=dst-nat chain=dstnat dst-address=192.168.35.2dst-port=80protocol=tcp  to-ports=5216addaction=dst-nat chain=dstnat dst-address=192.168.35.2dst-port=443protocol=tcp  to-ports=5216
```

Well, if we assume that the final desired  result is:a. type the destination IP address in the browser without specifying portb. *somehow* connect the browser on a specific port of the specific destination IP addressa dstnat port remapping seems like a possible solution, it should be something *like*:Code:Select alldepending if the used port for the browser connection is normally 80 or 443, right?A browser bookmark with the port number included seems to me a lot simpler, though.


---
### Author: Sat Jan 11, 2025 8:09 pm
Date: Unknown

```
/ip firewall nataddaction=dst-nat chain=dstnat dst-address=192.168.35.2dst-port=80protocol=tcp  to-ports=5216addaction=dst-nat chain=dstnat dst-address=192.168.35.2dst-port=443protocol=tcp  to-ports=5216
```

```
addaction=dst-nat chain=dstnat dst-address=192.168.35.2dst-port=80protocol=tcp  to-ports=5216
```

Add adstnat firewall rule.This is what the Docker/Podman --publish flag does for you automatically, which you must do by hand on RouterOS.Details.This also makes sense. Thanks for this information. I first time have situation like this, and today learned something usefull.Well, if we assume that the final desired  result is:a. type the destination IP address in the browser without specifying portb. *somehow* connect the browser on a specific port of the specific destination IP addressa dstnat port remapping seems like a possible solution, it should be something *like*:Code:Select alldepending if the used port for the browser connection is normally 80 or 443, right?A browser bookmark with the port number included seems to me a lot simpler, though.Many thanks. The code:Code:Select allmakes the trick. Now just enter the IP, and it load the container dashboard without any ports to insert. I have many containers (some on my Mikrotik) and others on Mini PC with Proxmox, so remember all that ports its nightmare for me. This makes the work easy.

