---
title: Untitled Thread
source_url: https://forum.mikrotik.com/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=213691&p=1118434&amp;sid=3b77a3334c914448dbbc02bfdff4c3aa#p1118434
crawled_date: 2025-02-02T21:32:26.614137
section: mikrotik_forum
type: forum_thread
---

### Author: Sun Jan 05, 2025 12:30 am
Date: Unknown

```
/interface/wireguard/peers/print/interface/wireguard/peers/show-client-config<#>file=wgpeer
```

```
/interface/wireguard/wg-importfile=wgpeer
```

I believe youmightbe able to but not an easily.   First, using wg-export is wrong - that's going to replicate the entire wireguard config...  While what I think you want to do is make the router2 as peer to router1's BTH.So you need to create an additional BTH user ("shared user") via app or /ip/cloud/back-to-home-users/...  And then using CLI find the new BTH user using /interface/wireguard/peer/print and "show-client-config" with a file=, replacing the <#> with line number for new BTH peer:Code:Select allAnd download "wgpeer" from Files for import into router2.Then on router2, copy the saved "wgpeer" file to router2's files, and at CLI useCode:Select allThis will NOT alone bridge (or routing) between networks, but you should have a L3 connection with 192.168.216.1/24 being router1's gateway address.  So if router2 can ping 192.168.216.1, the WG peer is working.There are a few approaches to "bridging the LANs", one being EoIP using WG.  Or, you may be able get by with routing if router1 and router2 are using different LAN subnets (i.e. by adding static /ip/route on each route using the remote BTH IP address as the gateway).  But I'd try above "show-client-config" on router1 and "wg-import" on router2 and see if "ping" works via CGNAT.


---
### Author: Fri Jan 10, 2025 6:24 pm
Date: Unknown

On routerA it's needed because routerB is trying to connect to the routerA thought the internet and without that rule firewall would drop the traffic.Perhaps there is some outbound traffic from that port that opens up a hole in routerB allowing response traffic? Anyway, I think it does not hurt to leave that rule in place.Yup, that could be happening.  It take more dissecting your config rules to know for sure - there is not actually one default configuration and /interface/list stuff matter too...  I can say you'd need/want the allow filter rule if RouterB had a public IP, but if using the proxy then outbound is all that's needed.Keep in mind BTH will also use IPv6, so if that's enabled... it's possible your WG peers are going via IPv6 too.

