---
title: Untitled Thread
source_url: https://forum.mikrotik.com/viewtopic.php?f=13&t=214017&p=1120192#p1120192
crawled_date: 2025-02-02T21:37:31.277641
section: mikrotik_forum
type: forum_thread
---

### Author: Mon Jan 20, 2025 12:16 am
Date: Unknown

Hi.Recently moved into apartment where ISP cable is located in the room I want to use as kids room - main router will be placed there.Do not want to put NAS and printer to kids room, so looking for safer place. Have no idea how cable is routed within apartment, and right now not willing investigate.As an idea, want to place another router in other location within apartment and connect via WiFi, wired connection is not an option right now.Nothing specific needed, just to be able to connect to NAS and printer within LAN, and for NAS to have access to Internet.What I have:- Microtik Audience, currently as main router, connected to ISP cable- Microtik hAP ac2 as secondary where I want to connect NAS and printer.Both running RouterOS 7.17 with wifi-qcom-ac package.I have tried several tutorials over the internet, but haven't succeeded to get things working.Audience is up and running, and I have no real issues with WiFi coverage within the apartment.On hAP ac2 I have configured WiFi and added everything except wifi2 to bridge:# 2025-01-20 22:47:22 by RouterOS 7.17/interface bridgeadd name=bridge_local/interface wifiset [ find default-name=wifi1 ] configuration.country=Latvia .mode=ap .ssid=\SID_WIFI disabled=noset [ find default-name=wifi2 ] configuration.country=Latvia .mode=station \.ssid=SID_CONNECTED_TO_ANOTHER_ROUTER disabled=no/interface bridge portadd bridge=bridge_local interface=ether1add bridge=bridge_local interface=ether2add bridge=bridge_local interface=ether3add bridge=bridge_local interface=ether4add bridge=bridge_local interface=ether5add bridge=bridge_local interface=wifi1/ip hotspot profileset [ find default=yes ] html-directory=hotspot/system clockset time-zone-name=Europe/Riga/system noteset show-at-login=no/system routerboard settingsset auto-upgrade=yesOn hAP ac2 under WiFi->Registrations I see successful connection to Audience via wifi2, and same is on Audience.But on Audience I do not see any IP address assigned to this connection under IP->DHCP Server->Leases. Is it correct?Next thing, when running ipconfig /all on laptop connected to hAP ac2 I see IP address like 169.254.93.242. While expecting to see something from 192.168.88.0/24 range.DHCP is not configured currently on ac2, but is it possible to use DHCP service from Audience to lease IP addresses to devices connected to hAP ac2?And another question is on DNS. Do I need to configure something specific on hAP ac2? Or I can get all info from Audience?Till now, whatever I was doing on hAP ac2, none of connected device was able to access internet:>ping google.comPing request could not find host google.com. Please check the name and try again.>nslookup google.comServer:  UnKnownAddress:  fec0:0:0:ffff::1*** UnKnown can't find google.com: No response from serverSame when trying to ping from ac2:> ping google.cominvalid value for argument address:invalid value of mac-address, mac address requiredinvalid value for argument ipv6-addresswhile resolving ip-address: could not get answer from dns serverI am quite far from any network stuff, and definitely messing something up.Please help to understand what is the right way to set it up?Thanks.


---
### Author: Mon Jan 20, 2025 9:34 am
Date: Unknown

Hi.@rplant, many thanks, it worked. And working as expected. I am able to connect to Internet through ac2 on both, wired and wireless.I was moving on cycles for quite a while. So, @rplant, thank you for sharing solution.If someone is looking for similar solution:- Audience, main router where ISP cable is connected -> no configuration changes were done- hAP ac2, below exported configuration that is working for me:# 2025-01-21 08:34:18 by RouterOS 7.17/interface bridgeadd name=bridge_local/interface wifiset [ find default-name=wifi1 ] configuration.country=Latvia .mode=ap .ssid=\SID_WIFI disabled=noset [ find default-name=wifi2 ] configuration.country=Latvia .mode=\station-bridge .ssid=SID_CONNECTED_TO_ANOTHER_ROUTER disabled=no/interface bridge portadd bridge=bridge_local interface=ether1add bridge=bridge_local interface=ether2add bridge=bridge_local interface=ether3add bridge=bridge_local interface=ether4add bridge=bridge_local interface=ether5add bridge=bridge_local interface=wifi1add bridge=bridge_local interface=wifi2/ip dhcp-clientadd interface=bridge_local/ip hotspot profileset [ find default=yes ] html-directory=hotspotInstruction for dummies like me, all steps below from Winbox41. reset router: System->Reset Configuration->No Default Configuration2. Set user and password for the router / disable admin. Use new user for connection and configuration.3. Configure WiFi interface on which you want to connect to another router. Set SID same as SID on main router, set Mode->Station Bridge, set passphrase same as on main router. Check under WiFi->Registration if connection to main router is established. If no connection, then try WiFi->WiFi->Scan->Select Interface->Find WiFi network->Connect4. Configure other WiFi interfaces if you want to use WiFi on secondary router, set passphrase for all interfaces. Do not leave non protected access to your WiFi.5. Create Bridge. Bridge->Bridge->New->leave all as default6. Add all interfaces to created Bridge. Bridge->Ports->New->add all required interfaces one by one. Use all settings as default.7. Create DHCP Client. IP->DHCP Client->DHCP Client->New. As interface select Bridge, other settings use as default.Regards,Andrejs

