# Thread Information
Title: Thread-1123448
Section: RouterOS
Thread ID: 1123448

# Discussion

## Initial Question
I have a need to create a 1.3km connection, but my basic understanding of RF says that it will not work.The maximum height of the APs in the context of the height of the trees and terrain will make reliable, fast connectivity, even at 2.4ghz, impossible.Here is a RF terrain analysis done at:https://rfelements.com/calcAm I understanding correctly that without line of sight (LOS) plus an adequate frenzel zone, there's no way I can make this work (without 100' towers on each end)?Thank you.Screenshot 2025-02-01 231305.png ---

## Response 1
Am I understanding correctly that ... there's no way ...?Indeed. Non-line of sight (NLOS) radio systems do exist but they rely on strong enough reflection of the signal from buildings and other solid structures. Vegetation rather absorbs the signal than reflects it (the 2.4 GHz band in particular has been actually made freely available because water molecules absorb it eagerly so it is useless for long distance connections).Depending on the criticity of the connection and other circumstances, I would consider either to use an optical fiber or to place a third site somewhere at a point that has LOS towards both the endpoints, even if that would mean two 10 km links rather than a single 1.3 km one. A solar powered installation would allow to put the third site on the "obstacle" itself, but it depends on the amount of light you can sustainably harvest during winter. ---

## Response 2
Regarding fiber, if you're the landowner and somewhat handy, you can rent a small walk-behind trencher to lay the fiber in a ditch. To terminate it, you can rent a Fusion Splicer and use splice-on connectors, or go with mechanical connectors if you want to skip the splicing. There are also plenty of affordable microducts with pre-installed multimode fiber that you can bury directly.You might also consider using an antenna mast, 50–66' in height, to reach over the treetops (depending on how high they are). You can get a telescoping mast for about $400–500, but you will also need to buy guy wires, anchors, and base mounts. Then, you'll need to put in some time and effort to piece everything together.So probably the easiest and cheapest option is to use 4G/5G if it's available. ---

## Response 3
Am I understanding correctly that ... there's no way ...?Indeed. Non-line of sight (NLOS) radio systems do exist but they rely on strong enough reflection of the signal from buildings and other solid structures. Vegetation rather absorbs the signal than reflects it (the 2.4 GHz band in particular has been actually made freely available because water molecules absorb it eagerly so it is useless for long distance connections).Depending on the criticity of the connection and other circumstances, I would consider either to use an optical fiber or to place a third site somewhere at a point that has LOS towards both the endpoints, even if that would mean two 10 km links rather than a single 1.3 km one. A solar powered installation would allow to put the third site on the "obstacle" itself, but it depends on the amount of light you can sustainably harvest during winter.Hi sindy, Thanks very much for the confirmation and further explanation. I have a reasonable understanding of this, but was hoping there was something useful that I was missing.The link ends cross property not owned by me, so a physical link is not a possibility.A 3rd point would be a very interesting solution, but I don't think practicle in this situation.I do have another set of locations that I've been dreaming of connecting where a 3rd point exists that would work, but it would indeed need to be solar powered, and on a tower.In fact, in my area of heavy tree coverage with tree top heights about 60-70', LOS is rare. ---

## Response 4
Regarding fiber, if you're the landowner and somewhat handy, you can rent a small walk-behind trencher to lay the fiber in a ditch. To terminate it, you can rent a Fusion Splicer and use splice-on connectors, or go with mechanical connectors if you want to skip the splicing. There are also plenty of affordable microducts with pre-installed multimode fiber that you can bury directly.You might also consider using an antenna mast, 50–66' in height, to reach over the treetops (depending on how high they are). You can get a telescoping mast for about $400–500, but you will also need to buy guy wires, anchors, and base mounts. Then, you'll need to put in some time and effort to piece everything together.So probably the easiest and cheapest option is to use 4G/5G if it's available.I actually have large and small equipment to dig trenches (and move dirt) and have been wondering about playing with some fiber. I don't have experience with terminating it, and I have no idea if fiber can be put direclty in soil, and if there is an issue with freezing (and the resulting heaving) or roots. Just another item on the ever-growing bucket list of fun things to do.I have been dreaming of a tower for a long time. My dream is for a real, professional, 100 to 120' tower with square walk-around platform on top. I would put all sorts of antennas and radio equipment on it, and maybe even an enclosed area to take a nap or sleep the night, at elevation, with views dozens of miles into the distance. But, until I hit the lottery, it's just a dream.Shorter towers won't do much with my tree height, and guy wires will definetly fail the wife approval test (I could get an override if I won the lottery and explained the observation deck tower idea). ---

## Response 5
Trench to edge of properties, then towers............ See if there is at any point across the cross property if there is line of sight. ---

## Response 6
4G/5G or Starlink might be easier, as already suggested ? ---

## Response 7
@Josephny; If you're planning to install fiber yourself and have your own machinery, just go ahead and use a narrow trenching blade. A depth of about 15-16 inches should be enough.There are plenty of reinforced microducts with pre-installed fiber designed for direct burial in the ground for about 20-30 cents a yard. They're built to handle things like freezing, ground movement (heaving), and even roots, so they hold up well in tough conditions.With the short distance, you can go for a super flexible multimode that can bend pretty much any way without breaking. Great if you're running the fiber around inside the house. Terminating fiber with connectors is actually pretty easy to do yourself. If you're doing it yourself, I’d recommend getting a duct with a built-in tracer, as it makes it much easier to track the cable with a signal detector.But as @holvoetn suggested, 4G/5G or Starlink might be the easier route. ---

## Response 8
I looked into cellular.I already have mobile phone lines with Verizon, and for $10/month they will provide an LTE connection capped at 160gb/month.I would do that, but the review and the features of the readily available physical hot spots stink.That is why I asked not long ago if Mikrotik has a product that I can stick a sim card in that would work easily with Verizon. (Key being "easily.)As for trenching, the 1.3km cross multiple property lines, and there is no LOS without my dream tower (in this case, one on each end).One of these days, I will build my tower, and put all sorts of RF links (data, digital, analog, audio, etc.) on it. ---

## Response 9
guy wires will definetly fail the wife approval test (I could get an override if I won the lottery and explained the observation deck tower idea).Well, a tower that can safely hold an observation deck normally does not need any guy wires (and costs accordingly more); on the other hand, I've seen strong enough wind to turn the "guywired" mast a few degrees around its vertical axis, resulting in antenna disalignment, and I would be quite afraid to fall asleep (as in, spend an extended period of time) on such a structure or anywhere within the circular area where it can fall if one of the guy wires breaks, I've also heard about such events.When discussing fun ideas, have you considered using a cable-powered drone as an LHG carrier instead of a tower? Google or some other large internet company was experimenting with baloons instead of satellites, but in the 5 GHz band, you would not be able to use omnidirectional antennas due to power density restrictions (you can use the antenna gain only in Rx direction) so the drone would have to maintain orientation.On a serious note, how much capacity do you really need between the sites? Rural LTE/5G may be quite overloaded and thus the bandwidth availability may rapidly change, this seems like a worse issue than Mikrotik/Verizon compatibility that is easily addressed by connecting a 5G stick approved/provided by Verizon to a router of your choice using Ethernet or USB. But for temperature sensors and similar stuff, maybe LoRa would be sufficient? ---

## Response 10
guy wires will definetly fail the wife approval test (I could get an override if I won the lottery and explained the observation deck tower idea).Well, a tower that can safely hold an observation deck normally does not need any guy wires (and costs accordingly more); on the other hand, I've seen strong enough wind to turn the "guywired" mast a few degrees around its vertical axis, resulting in antenna disalignment, and I would be quite afraid to fall asleep (as in, spend an extended period of time) on such a structure or anywhere within the circular area where it can fall if one of the guy wires breaks, I've also heard about such events.When discussing fun ideas, have you considered using a cable-powered drone as an LHG carrier instead of a tower? Google or some other large internet company was experimenting with baloons instead of satellites, but in the 5 GHz band, you would not be able to use omnidirectional antennas due to power density restrictions (you can use the antenna gain only in Rx direction) so the drone would have to maintain orientation.On a serious note, how much capacity do you really need between the sites? Rural LTE/5G may be quite overloaded and thus the bandwidth availability may rapidly change, this seems like a worse issue than Mikrotik/Verizon compatibility that is easily addressed by connecting a 5G stick approved/provided by Verizon to a router of your choice using Ethernet or USB. But for temperature sensors and similar stuff, maybe LoRa would be sufficient?Oh yes, my observation deck tower would not be guyed. It would have about a 20'' square base into 8' deep concrete. Maybe a zip line down.Now you've added another item to my list: permament/stationary drones, solar powered of course, providing not only RF link connectivity but video feed also.I was wondering about LoRa also. I would not be surprised if 900mhz with high gain antennas at 20' above ground level work at my particular 1.3km range. This would satisfy the sensor needs, but not the video feed needs, and certainly not the browsing/streaming needs.I don't understand what you mean by Rural LTE/5G would be easily address by connecting a 5G stick approved by Verizon to a router of my choice. Would you please explain what this means? Or point me to such sticks and routers?Thanks. ---

## Response 11
I actually have large and small equipment to dig trenches (and move dirt) and have been wondering about playing with some fiber. I don't have experience with terminating it, and I have no idea if fiber can be put direclty in soil, and if there is an issue with freezing (and the resulting heaving) or roots. Just another item on the ever-growing bucket list of fun things to do.At least here "professional" layout of fiber in private properties is usually done with "normal" (but outdoor/anti rodent) fiber inside common hdpe water pipes (the black ones with blue stripes) since you don't really need pressure tightness PE80 can be used.Specific ones with red stripes for cable protection do exist but I have only seen them in public installs.A lot of fibers can be passed inside a 32 or 40 mm pipe, but also 20 and 25 mm exist which are good enough for a a few of them, 16 mm pipes also exist, and it might be enough for a single or a couple fibers, but it seems to me too small (it depends also on how long the stretch will be).Rolls of pipe are usually 100 meters and unless an inspection is needed, they are joined with common hydraulic joints/couplers.You can also use a cable type that can be put directly into earth (direct burial/armored) but - should it be damaged - it will be a PITA to repair or replace.There are mechanical terminators, but a proper fusion splicing with a pigtail would be better.Thermal fusion splicing machine used to cost an arm and a leg, but they are now becoming - if not affordable - at least justifiable (below 1, 000 $/€, they used to be in the several thousands $/€ range), and though not exactly easy to do, splicing can be learned in a few attempts.But if you need only a few, a professional should do a termination for around 30-35 $/€ or less (+ fixed call, probably around 100 $/€). ---

## Response 12
I don't understand what you mean by Rural LTE/5G would be easily address by connecting a 5G stick approved by Verizon to a router of my choice.Well, that's two separate things - the cell congestion issue is one thing, and the fact that Verizon seems to have changed approach is another one. All the links I could google up for "verizon 5g hotspot" point to pages underhttps://www.verizon.com/internet-devices/that throw an error, although thehttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_suFkRFTToreview is just a few months old. So you'll have to talk to them to find out I guess. ---

## Response 13
Well, a tower that can safely hold an observation deck normally does not need any guy wires (and costs accordingly more); on the other hand, I've seen strong enough wind to turn the "guywired" mast a few degrees around its vertical axis, resulting in antenna disalignment, and I would be quite afraid to fall asleep (as in, spend an extended period of time) on such a structure or anywhere within the circular area where it can fall if one of the guy wires breaks, I've also heard about such events.When discussing fun ideas, have you considered using a cable-powered drone as an LHG carrier instead of a tower? Google or some other large internet company was experimenting with baloons instead of satellites, but in the 5 GHz band, you would not be able to use omnidirectional antennas due to power density restrictions (you can use the antenna gain only in Rx direction) so the drone would have to maintain orientation.On a serious note, how much capacity do you really need between the sites? Rural LTE/5G may be quite overloaded and thus the bandwidth availability may rapidly change, this seems like a worse issue than Mikrotik/Verizon compatibility that is easily addressed by connecting a 5G stick approved/provided by Verizon to a router of your choice using Ethernet or USB. But for temperature sensors and similar stuff, maybe LoRa would be sufficient?Oh yes, my observation deck tower would not be guyed. It would have about a 20'' square base into 8' deep concrete. Maybe a zip line down.Now you've added another item to my list: permament/stationary drones, solar powered of course, providing not only RF link connectivity but video feed also.I was wondering about LoRa also. I would not be surprised if 900mhz with high gain antennas at 20' above ground level work at my particular 1.3km range. This would satisfy the sensor needs, but not the video feed needs, and certainly not the browsing/streaming needs.I don't understand what you mean by Rural LTE/5G would be easily address by connecting a 5G stick approved by Verizon to a router of my choice. Would you please explain what this means? Or point me to such sticks and routers?Thanks.I meant: 20' (20 foot) square base. ---

## Response 14
I actually have large and small equipment to dig trenches (and move dirt) and have been wondering about playing with some fiber. I don't have experience with terminating it, and I have no idea if fiber can be put direclty in soil, and if there is an issue with freezing (and the resulting heaving) or roots. Just another item on the ever-growing bucket list of fun things to do.At least here "professional" layout of fiber in private properties is usually done with "normal" (but outdoor/anti rodent) fiber inside common hdpe water pipes (the black ones with blue stripes) since you don't really need pressure tightness PE80 can be used.Specific ones with red stripes for cable protection do exist but I have only seen them in public installs.A lot of fibers can be passed inside a 32 or 40 mm pipe, but also 20 and 25 mm exist which are good enough for a a few of them, 16 mm pipes also exist, and it might be enough for a single or a couple fibers, but it seems to me too small (it depends also on how long the stretch will be).Rolls of pipe are usually 100 meters and unless an inspection is needed, they are joined with common hydraulic joints/couplers.You can also use a cable type that can be put directly into earth (direct burial/armored) but - should it be damaged - it will be a PITA to repair or replace.There are mechanical terminators, but a proper fusion splicing with a pigtail would be better.Thermal fusion splicing machine used to cost an arm and a leg, but they are now becoming - if not affordable - at least justifiable (below 1, 000 $/€, they used to be in the several thousands $/€ range), and though not exactly easy to do, splicing can be learned in a few attempts.But if you need only a few, a professional should do a termination for around 30-35 $/€ or less (+ fixed call, probably around 100 $/€).I have some experiecing laying pipe underground, but not with fiber.The idea of a 100m (300') roll fo black pipe is very nice indeed. I assume some type of rigid snake would be use to feed a pull wire through?Here in NY, USA we do not have professionals that do anything for $35. Our professionals start at $3, 500 and that's only for garbage work. We do have a lot of incompetent people, but their prices start at $350 and when the work doesn't work it's never their fault. ---

## Response 15
I don't understand what you mean by Rural LTE/5G would be easily address by connecting a 5G stick approved by Verizon to a router of my choice.Well, that's two separate things - the cell congestion issue is one thing, and the fact that Verizon seems to have changed approach is another one. All the links I could google up for "verizon 5g hotspot" point to pages underhttps://www.verizon.com/internet-devices/that throw an error, although thehttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_suFkRFTToreview is just a few months old. So you'll have to talk to them to find out I guess.Exactly. That's why the idea of a Mikrotik router with a sim slot sounded so good.Talk to Verizon? I can think of any number of forms of torture I'd prefer.... ---

## Response 16
Dont complain, up here in Canada we have to actually buy our cell phones, unlike verizon and T-mobile that give them away like candies. ---

## Response 17
I assume some type of rigid snake would be use to feed a pull wire through?Professional companies push the cables themselves through the tubes using air compressors; I usually use a vacuum cleaner on the destination side to pull the air in which works surprisingly nice for pushing a lightweight pulling cord from the source side, but I'm far from sure it would be enough for such a distance. If you use the screw or self-welding type joints to connect the tubes, you can install the pulling cord before connecting them together and burying them. However, one of the reasons why telco companies use dedicated tubes rather than the common ones for water distribution is that the dedicated ones are equipped with low friction inner coating. The fibre cable is not much heavier than the pulling cord itself so it may even work if you suck in the cable through one 300 ft section of the tube at a time rather than pulling it all the way through using the cord. ---

## Response 18
With the short distance, you can go for a super flexible multimode ...@OP mentioned 1.3km distance ... and that's direct distance. Which is way longer than 550m limit for multimode fiber. So if @OP decides for digging, it should be single-mode ... which is most often laid inside protective tube. Due to longer distances one needs special equipment to "blow fiber" inside the protective tube and due to economics of this process (uses compressed air), those protective tubes are most often quite thin, inner diameter of the tube can be as small as double outer diameter of fibre cable. ---

## Response 19
Talk to Verizon? I can think of any number of forms of torture I'd prefer....Same here, I’d rather have a dentist appointment without anesthesia! ---

## Response 20
Dont complain, up here in Canada we have to actually buy our cell phones, unlike verizon and T-mobile that give them away like candies.Very interesting.I think this falls under the 'grass is always greener' and 'nothing is free" categories of life.I pay $25/month just for those free candies -- a total of 7 of them each month -- for a total monthly bill of over $525.nah nah na nah nah -- I have it soooooo good! ---

## Response 21
I assume some type of rigid snake would be use to feed a pull wire through?Professional companies push the cables themselves through the tubes using air compressors; I usually use a vacuum cleaner on the destination side to pull the air in which works surprisingly nice for pushing a lightweight pulling cord from the source side, but I'm far from sure it would be enough for such a distance. If you use the screw or self-welding type joints to connect the tubes, you can install the pulling cord before connecting them together and burying them. However, one of the reasons why telco companies use dedicated tubes rather than the common ones for water distribution is that the dedicated ones are equipped with low friction inner coating. The fibre cable is not much heavier than the pulling cord itself so it may even work if you suck in the cable through one 300 ft section of the tube at a time rather than pulling it all the way through using the cord.Wow, I didn't know that fiber cables can me sucked (or blown) through with air -- very cool.One of the reasons I like the 300' roll is the lack of joints. ---

## Response 22
That leaves... Starlink ?Or you don't want to sponsor Elon ? ---

## Response 23
With the short distance, you can go for a super flexible multimode ...@OP mentioned 1.3km distance ... and that's direct distance. Which is way longer than 550m limit for multimode fiber. So if @OP decides for digging, it should be single-mode ... which is most often laid inside protective tube. Due to longer distances one needs special equipment to "blow fiber" inside the protective tube and due to economics of this process (uses compressed air), those protective tubes are most often quite thin, inner diameter of the tube can be as small as double outer diameter of fibre cable.Very cool.Good to know that 550m is the limit for multimode fiber.I was hoping for an RF solution, but certainly where wired is feasable, it is in so many ways a better solution. ---

## Response 24
That leaves... Starlink ?Or you don't want to sponsor Elon ?Unlike many, I don't mix my technology or my art preferences with the politics of the sponsor/owner/artist.Starlink is about the same price as Spectrum cable internet (~$60/month), and between the two, I think Spectrum would be a better choice.I just don't want to have yet another $60/month cost, if possible. ---

## Response 25
The idea of a 100m (300') roll fo black pipe is very nice indeed. I assume some type of rigid snake would be use to feed a pull wire through?They use AFAIK a "normal" (of course long/stiff) glass fibre cable puller directly, *like* (example):https://www.batna24.com/en/p/extralink- ... -rod-rmmij ---

## Response 26
Unlike many, I don't mix my technology or my art preferences with the politics of the sponsor/owner/artist.Solid attitude !Starlink is about the same price as Spectrum cable internet (~$60/month), and between the two, I think Spectrum would be a better choice.I just don't want to have yet another $60/month cost, if possible.Now we're mentioning this ...What are your actual connectivity requirements for that link ? What do you want to use it for ?Is it going to be a permanent thing or temporary ?Based on that bandwidth and time requirement, what options are available and what are the costs for each ? Total costs. Initial investment ánd recurring costs.Put that in a time table and look what it brings for 3 years.It might be worthwhile to start with 4G/5G (from all suggested solutions the lowest cost investment, I would think) and see how it goes ?Surely digging trenches, building towers and what not, also costs a bit and don't make the common mistake to forget counting your own time ! You might earn money doing other things with that time.If doing so keeps you away from the pub or so, then you may subtract that spending as earningAnd I understood not all land between both point is yours ? So a direct connection is out of the question ? ---

## Response 27
The idea of a 100m (300') roll fo black pipe is very nice indeed. I assume some type of rigid snake would be use to feed a pull wire through?They use AFAIK a "normal" (of course long/stiff) glass fibre cable puller directly, *like* (example):https://www.batna24.com/en/p/extralink- ... -rod-rmmijNice.BTW, trenching difficulty where I am in central NY state varies from horrible to impossible. I have several machines, the largest of which is a 34000lb excavator and often have to use that big machine and struggle mightily with it (and make a huge mess) in the rocky (from gravel to boulders), heavily compacted clay, and "hardpan" soil of upstate NY. Almost always a regrettable endeavor. ---

## Response 28
One of the reasons I like the 300' roll is the lack of joints.When they laid GPON in my area, they joined shorter stretches of protective tubes into approx 1km stretches ... where they put in shallow shafts ... concrete sections of pipes placed verically, 1m deep and 50cm of diameter (covered with cast iron covers). They told me that stretches up to 2 km were feasible with their equipment, anything more than that would require higher compressed air pressures which might damage/burst the joints.The idea about compressed air (and vacuum likewise for shorter stretches) is to have air current "pull" the cable along the whole length which stresses cable way less than either pulling it with pre-laid rope or pushing it into tube (this is the worst way of doing it). The reason being friction against the tube wall ... and that becomes much worse on the bends of tube ... because pulling force will increase pressure of cable against inner tube wall. Pushing cable will do the same even on straight stretches. But air flow will produce "pulling force" distributed along the whole cable so no part of cable will excessively "pull" or "push" adjacent part of cable. Air flow will also also create "air cushion" which will help to center cable inside tube reducing friction further. ---

## Response 29
Now we're mentioning this ...What are your actual connectivity requirements for that link ? What do you want to use it for ?Is it going to be a permanent thing or temporary ?Based on that bandwidth and time requirement, what options are available and what are the costs for each ? Total costs. Initial investment ánd recurring costs.Put that in a time table and look what it brings for 3 years.It might be worthwhile to start with 4G/5G (from all suggested solutions the lowest cost investment, I would think) and see how it goes ?Surely digging trenches, building towers and what not, also costs a bit and don't make the common mistake to forget counting your own time ! You might earn money doing other things with that time.If doing so keeps you away from the pub or so, then you may subtract that spending as earningAnd I understood not all land between both point is yours ? So a direct connection is out of the question ?1) Sensors for monitoring environmental values and remote controls/switches to Home Assistant server2) Video streaming from remote location for Blue Iris server3) Users at remote location doing typical Internet stuff like web surfing, video/music streaming, remote control/access stuff#1 is very low bandwidth and low reliability need#2 is high upload (from remote site)#3 is common Inet access stuffThis would be a permanent (24/7) connection.The only options are:A) Spectrum cable -- $60/month, small initial setup/install feeB) Starlink -- about the sameC) Cellular -- $10/month but bandwidth and data caps would likely fail at #2 and never make it to #3 aboveD) Build two 100' towers (permits, materials, construction, power, wiring, etc.) would easily recoup the cost in 100 to 200 years.I beg your pardon, but some of my most precious time is spent at the pub, so the calculations might be different that what you predicted. ---

## Response 30
With the short distance, you can go for a super flexible multimode ...@OP mentioned 1.3km distance ... and that's direct distance. Which is way longer than 550m limit for multimode fiber. So if @OP decides for digging, it should be single-mode ... which is most often laid inside protective tube. Due to longer distances one needs special equipment to "blow fiber" inside the protective tube and due to economics of this process (uses compressed air), those protective tubes are most often quite thin, inner diameter of the tube can be as small as double outer diameter of fibre cable.Well, it all depends on what speed you're aiming for. When it comes to 1 Gbps, Wikipedia is incomplete.OM5/SWDM can now reach much farther (just over 1 km), but it depends on the fiber manufacturer, the transceivers you're using, as well as bend and connector loss. That said, I agree that single-mode is the right choice in this case.Direct-buried microducts are reinforced to withstand underground conditions. We use them for last-mile installations when there aren't any other customers along the way.@Josephny; yeah, blowing fiber is the standard method. With a microduct blower, you can easily blow 1.5–2 km. There are also ducts with pre-installed pull strings. And forget about using a vacuum cleaner for blowing fiber—it’s just not gonna work! Btw, if you decide to go ahead with setting up your own fiber, tools like blow machines, fusion splicers, and so on are pretty cheap to rent these days. ---

## Response 31
@OP mentioned 1.3km distance ... and that's direct distance. Which is way longer than 550m limit for multimode fiber. So if @OP decides for digging, it should be single-mode ... which is most often laid inside protective tube. Due to longer distances one needs special equipment to "blow fiber" inside the protective tube and due to economics of this process (uses compressed air), those protective tubes are most often quite thin, inner diameter of the tube can be as small as double outer diameter of fibre cable.Well, it all depends on what speed you're aiming for. When it comes to 1 Gbps, Wikipedia is incomplete.OM5/SWDM can now reach much farther (just over 1 km), but it depends on the fiber manufacturer, the transceivers you're using, as well as bend and connector loss. That said, I agree that single-mode is the right choice in this case.Direct-buried microducts are reinforced to withstand underground conditions. We use them for last-mile installations when there aren't any other customers along the way.@Josephny; yeah, blowing fiber is the standard method. With a microduct blower, you can easily blow 1.5–2 km. There are also ducts with pre-installed pull strings. And forget about using a vacuum cleaner for blowing fiber—it’s just not gonna work! Btw, if you decide to go ahead with setting up your own fiber, tools like blow machines, fusion splicers, and so on are pretty cheap to rent these days.That is very good to know. I have no immediate fiber plans, but I do have some small houses all connected via twisted pair that I would consider changing to fiber. This is overhead (exposed to UV, cold, rain, etc.), so it's not exactly trench/pipe/blow. Underground solutions are only when required (most of the time water, gas, and sometimes electric). ---

## Response 32
I do have some small houses all connected via twisted pair that I would consider changing to fiber. This is overhead (exposed to UV, cold, rain, etc.), so it's not exactly trench/pipe/blow.For this purpose, self-supporting and UV-resistant outdoor jumpers (reinforced by metallic or load-bearing fiber separate from the signal-carrying one and pre-equipped with connectors so no on-site welding is required) are available, https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1005003755756121.htmlas an example. A single-core cable needs CWDM transceivers (that use 1550 nm for one direction and 1310 nm for the other), but a dual-core one costs the same. ---

## Response 33
..but I do have some small houses all connected via twisted pair… This is overhead (exposed to UV, cold, rain, etc.)..Shouldn’t be a problem if you're using a protective conduit or an outdoor-rated cable that’s UV-resistant and built to handle cold, moisture, and all kinds of weather. ---

## Response 34
Same here, I’d rather have a dentist appointment without anesthesia!With those teeth, clearly you never go to the dentist! ---

## Response 35
That leaves... Starlink ?Or you don't want to sponsor Elon ?In the not to distant future, if you are not using Starlinka. you will not be allowed to voteorb. you will be deported! ---

## Response 36
@JosephnyClay, boulders, I feel your pain, same shit here in Nova Scotia.I retire next Sept, wouldnt mind a trip down to NY state to help and learn ( tics and deer flys would be far worse though than the ground ).Just hope I can afford the gas LOL, what with prices soon to b increasing in the US and my dollar worth probably by then .27cFunny I looked at over the serveral last years fibre cable from my house down to a possible boathouse and looked all kinds of armoured cable.Putting in an additional pipe was overkill for some of this stuff which was crush proof, rodent proof and waterproof.Deep enough to be under frost line is good enough............ shock and horror for the larsa professional types LOL.https://www.belden.com/products/cable/f ... Results=25By the way for the above house-boat house scenario, 60hz wifi is far simpler and easier. ---

## Response 37
@JosephnyClay, boulders, I feel your pain, same shit here in Nova Scotia.I retire next Sept, wouldnt mind a trip down to NY state to help and learn ( tics and deer flys would be far worse though than the ground ).Just hope I can afford the gas LOL, what with prices soon to b increasing in the US and my dollar worth probably by then .27cFunny I looked at over the serveral last years fibre cable from my house down to a possible boathouse and looked all kinds of armoured cable.Putting in an additional pipe was overkill for some of this stuff which was crush proof, rodent proof and waterproof.Deep enough to be under frost line is good enough............ shock and horror for the larsa professional types LOL.https://www.belden.com/products/cable/f ... Results=25By the way for the above house-boat house scenario, 60hz wifi is far simpler and easier.Let me know when you'll be here so I can settle my debt to you.Better hurry before one of our great leaders closes the border. ---

## Response 38
Contrary to what many people will say, no you don't need line of sight and yes radio waves can 'bend' around obstacles to some degree (actually diffraction). You can literally see this effect if you hold a flashlight flat against i.e. an edge of a table. If there was no diffraction you would see a clear cut-off of lit and unlit area, yet there's a visible yet darker band between the lit and unlit portionsHowever it will be nigh on impossible to 'predict' your results, so if possible just temporarily chuck the link up and observe results. Wireless contains a fair amount of dark magic and you sometimes you just have to roll it out and observe the results. Have successfully done many wireless links with complete obstruction, however you can sort of predict your results based on a few factors- You ideally want as much 'run up' before the obstruction as possible. It works FAR better when the obstruction is directly in the middle of the link as opposed to having it very close to the dish. So in some cases you actually want to move the link further back and extend the link to be even longer. This can help even if the height of the radio's does not change- Trees are exponentially worse up close and you have to factor in wind sway. Over distance it doesn't matter as much. They're more like a sponge for RF signals than an obstruction- Sometimes you can use hard obstacles like hills/buildings to bounce signals off and get around obstructions. Have done this in urban environments and attained a usable link with complete NLOS and bouncing the signal 90 degrees off a neighboring buildingYour link doesn't look great as you have obstruction right up close especially on the CPE side. However depending on the topology it might still work and you might even be able to turn the CPE and bounce off those hills to the side. If it doesn't involve cranes and you can just turn up and try the link, do it. I would try it, I give you 50-50 odds of getting some kind of link, whether its not its usable nobody can tell you just based off what you posted. It would just have to be testedUse 5ghz dishes, 60ghz 100% will not work, 2.4ghz is rubbish and 900mhz is often so slow and not all that great at going through trees, that you can often achieve similar or better results with a weak 5ghz obstructed signal over a strong-ish 900mhz one ---

## Response 39
Unfortunately, you do need line of sight for WiFi to work on 2.4/5 GHz. No amount of dark magic will get through 1.3 km of trees. Check Sindy’s previous answer on this. ---

## Response 40
I'll have to tell the dozen or so NLOS 5ghz links I currently have active that they've infact not had an active service all this time then...If OP is trying to actually shoot through 1.3km of trees at centre mass then no. If the link is mostly clear and only cutting the tops it may work. Have a similar link (based on OPs height graph as obstruction) currently achieving approx 200mbps (force 400) with NLOS at about the same distance across tree topsedit: just checked it, its actually 2.4km with a 600m long mass of trees obstructing the link. RSSI is -78dbm with 28db dishes on both sides. Actual throughput speeds are currently 160mbps/190mbps when the wind isn't blowing.... ---

## Response 41
I'll have to tell the dozen or so NLOS 5ghz links I currently have active that they've infact not had an active service all this time then...If OP is trying to actually shoot through 1.3km of trees at centre mass then no. If the link is mostly clear and only cutting the tops it may work. Have a similar link (based on OPs height graph as obstruction) currently achieving approx 200mbps (force 400) with NLOS at about the same distance across tree topsedit: just checked it, its actually 2.4km with a 600m long mass of trees obstructing the link. RSSI is -78dbm with 28db dishes on both sides. Actual throughput speeds are currently 160mbps/190mbps when the wind isn't blowing....Would you share the details of the equipment on both ends?The trees are just about continuous across the 1.3km, and I can't get the antenna height up, and there's nothing that I know of that would act as a reflector along the path. ---

## Response 42
If the trees are up close to the dish itself then you'll have a bad time, as mentioned you need to have a bit of a run upThat link is just 2x Cambium Force 425 with the 3db extenders on themI'd ideally recommend the Force 400c + RD-5G31-AC dish as its actually a very good dish (albeit quite big) but the thing is you want to test this link first, no point going out buying equipment if it just doesn't workIf you have any equipment hanging around just try it with the biggest dish you can at max power to start with. If you're using a 24dbi dish and seeing a signal at -93dbm or no signal at all then it's still going to be shit with a 31db dish at each end and prob not worth pursuing any further ---

## Response 43
If the trees are up close to the dish itself then you'll have a bad time, as mentioned you need to have a bit of a run upThat link is just 2x Cambium Force 425 with the 3db extenders on themI'd ideally recommend the Force 400c + RD-5G31-AC dish as its actually a very good dish (albeit quite big) but the thing is you want to test this link first, no point going out buying equipment if it just doesn't workIf you have any equipment hanging around just try it with the biggest dish you can at max power to start with. If you're using a 24dbi dish and seeing a signal at -93dbm or no signal at all then it's still going to be shit with a 31db dish at each end and prob not worth pursuing any furtherThat's a great approach.I have a WAP sitting around, but no dishes. Unfortunately, the major scarcity is time to play with this.It's certainly looking like another $60/month expense.Thank you all for the great education and thought exercise. ---

## Response 44
a WAP will definitely not work. At minimum you would want to be using 24dbi dishes on each end to assess the viability of itIt's easy for us to do as we're a WISP with equipment laying around that we can play with, but if you don't have equipment and have to purchase it to begin with then its a different story and I wouldn't be recommending any equipment with any sort of certaintyIf there's any WISP's in your area, maybe you can get friendly with them and borrow some cheaper dishes under a deposit to give it a try. Something like a Force 300-24, Litebeam or LHG XL5 will be suitable to assess the viability. You don't have to get them to establish a link but if you use the spectrum scanner (not sure if you can with MikroTik gear) to assess the signal strength and can clearly see the other side, then you can figure out if something like a F400/425 would work. On any of those radio's you'd want to see a signal in the -80 to -85dbm range at minimumHigher gain dishes will give you gain on 'both' sides of a link. So if you saw -80dbm with a pair of 24dbi dishes (not counting radio transmit power itself) then a pair of 31dbi dishes (with another assumption that it doesn't lie and is tuned at that same frequency) will see a 14dbi increase in signal strength on both ends of the link, making it ~-66dbm which is perfectly serviceableIf you got no detectable signal, then even with very high gain dishes you will very likely not establish a reliable link ---

## Response 45
a WAP will definitely not work. At minimum you would want to be using 24dbi dishes on each end to assess the viability of itIt's easy for us to do as we're a WISP with equipment laying around that we can play with, but if you don't have equipment and have to purchase it to begin with then its a different story and I wouldn't be recommending any equipment with any sort of certaintyIf there's any WISP's in your area, maybe you can get friendly with them and borrow some cheaper dishes under a deposit to give it a try. Something like a Force 300-24, Litebeam or LHG XL5 will be suitable to assess the viability. You don't have to get them to establish a link but if you use the spectrum scanner (not sure if you can with MikroTik gear) to assess the signal strength and can clearly see the other side, then you can figure out if something like a F400/425 would work. On any of those radio's you'd want to see a signal in the -80 to -85dbm range at minimumHigher gain dishes will give you gain on 'both' sides of a link. So if you saw -80dbm with a pair of 24dbi dishes (not counting radio transmit power itself) then a pair of 31dbi dishes (with another assumption that it doesn't lie and is tuned at that same frequency) will see a 14dbi increase in signal strength on both ends of the link, making it ~-66dbm which is perfectly serviceableIf you got no detectable signal, then even with very high gain dishes you will very likely not establish a reliable linkThat's great info.We have no WISPs, or anything or anyone technical for many, many miles.I see the LHG comes in an XL5 and HP5, but I don't see the difference. At ~$500 for a 4 pack plus brackets seems like a very economical solution (for those situations in which it will work). Ever power one by solar?Would you mind identifying when you would use these vs. a 60ghz solution (such as the Cube)? ---

## Response 46
Higher gain dishes will give you gain on 'both' sides of a link. So if you saw -80dbm with a pair of 24dbi dishes (not counting radio transmit power itself) then a pair of 31dbi dishes (with another assumption that it doesn't lie and is tuned at that same frequency) will see a 14dbi increase in signal strength on both ends of the link, making it ~-66dbm which is perfectly serviceable.Slow down, sir. What you wrote is perfectly fine for licensed bands where you can use the antenna gain for both Rx and Tx; in the WiFi bands, the irradiated power density is normally regulated to the level you would obtain using a 0 dB gain dipole, so you have to compensate any antenna gain by reducing the Tx power accordingly. Is this not the case in the U.S.? ---

## Response 47
Higher gain dishes will give you gain on 'both' sides of a link. So if you saw -80dbm with a pair of 24dbi dishes (not counting radio transmit power itself) then a pair of 31dbi dishes (with another assumption that it doesn't lie and is tuned at that same frequency) will see a 14dbi increase in signal strength on both ends of the link, making it ~-66dbm which is perfectly serviceable.Slow down, sir. What you wrote is perfectly fine for licensed bands where you can use the antenna gain for both Rx and Tx; in the WiFi bands, the irradiated power density is normally regulated to the level you would obtain using a 0 dB gain dipole, so you have to compensate any antenna gain by reducing the Tx power accordingly. Is this not the case in the U.S.?2.4ghz has a 36Dbm EIRP, and 52 Dbm for 5ghz in the US.Unless one is a licensed amateur radio operator (like me), and then the max limit is in the 'you can try this experiment exactly once' range. ---

## Response 48
Here’s a simulation for2.4 GHzsignal loss in a somewhat dense forest using36 dBm EIRP, with a minimum received power sensitivity of-90 dBmwhich BTW isextremely weak. You typical need at least-80 dBmfor a somewhat stable connection and-67 dBmor better for normal performance.Typical forest attenuation depends on density:less dense areas:0.2–1 dB/mmoderately dense forests:1–2 dB/mextremely dense, overgrown areas:+3 dB/mAt5 GHz, attenuation is roughly2–3 timesworse.Forest attenuation conditions used in this simulation:Somewhat dense forest:0.5 dB/mWet forest after rain:1.5 dB/mForest during rainfall:3 dB/mWi-Fi 2.4 GHz Signal Loss Through Dense Forest, Wet and Raining (36 DBm EIRP).pngResult:Somewhat dense forest (0.5 dB/m):~200 metersWet forest after rain (1.5 dB/m):~100 metersForest during rainfall (3.0 dB/m):~0 meters(Signal is absorbed almost immediately)The red dashed line at -90 dBm marks the receiver sensitivity threshold, where the signal is no longer usable. ---

## Response 49
Here’s a simulation for2.4 GHzsignal loss in a somewhat dense forest using36 dBm EIRP, with a minimum received power sensitivity of-90 dBmwhich BTW isextremely weak. You typical need at least-80 dBmfor a somewhat stable connection and-67 dBmor better for normal performance.Typical forest attenuation depends on density:less dense areas:0.2–1 dB/mmoderately dense forests:1–2 dB/mextremely dense, overgrown areas:+3 dB/mAt5 GHz, attenuation is roughly2–3 timesworse.Forest attenuation conditions used in this simulation:Somewhat dense forest:0.5 dB/mWet forest:1.5 dB/mRainfall:3 dB/mWi-Fi 2.4 GHz Signal Loss Through Dense Forest, Wet and Raining (36 DBm EIRP).pngResult:Dense Forest (0.5 dB/m):~200 metersWet Forest (1.5 dB/m):~100 metersForest with Rainfall (3.0 dB/m):~0 meters(Signal is absorbed almost immediately)The red dashed line at -90 dBm marks the receiver sensitivity threshold, where the signal is no longer usable.Looks promising ---