# Thread Information
Title: Thread-1114594
Section: RouterOS
Thread ID: 1114594

# Discussion

## Initial Question
Hi, I have a CCR2004-1G-12S+2XS that I started testing. However, I didn't realize when I bough it but it seems there are no features supported directly in the hardware switching on this device. The Mikrotik documentation for switch chips reports nothing is available on the ASIC and apparently all is done on the CPU. Is that correct?Report showing features available says (under 98PX1012 chip):Port switching: NoPort Mirroring: NoTX limit: NoRX limit: NoHost table: NoVlan table: NoRule table: NoFrom:https://help.mikrotik.com/docs/display/ ... p+FeaturesI'm looking for a 10G switch that can do VLAN functions (pull off provider tag, change incoming tags when necessary) at wire speed. If this is not a good model, what would be the best model to accomplish this that has 8 or more 10G ports? What switch chip is in CRS326-24S+2Q+RM?Thank you. ---

## Response 1
```
Isthat correct?yesblock diagram especify that CCR2004-1G-12S+2XS includes following chip:https://i.mt.lv/cdn/product_files/CCR20 ... 200459.pngpassive intelligent port extenderPIPE98PX1012Switch Chip Features manualhttps://help.mikrotik.com/docs/display/ ... p+Featuresspecify no hardware features for 98PX1012Bridge Hardware Offloading manualhttps://help.mikrotik.com/docs/display/ ... Offloading98PX1012 is not even mentionedL3 Hardware offloading manualhttps://help.mikrotik.com/docs/display/ ... Offloading98PX1012 is not even mentionedan explanation about port extenderhttps://packetpushers.net/marvells-pipe ... pointless/basically all traffic between interfaces must go through the cpu/socI dont see a big problem with this because the previous device this router try to replace (ccr1016-12s-1s+) does not have any hardware accelerationin fact except for the infamous ccr1009-8g series no CCR10xx had any hardware acceleration using switching chip o any other asicCCR2004-1G-12S+2XS was the first ccr2xxx but i think is a niche product fitted to replace (ccr1016-12s-1s+) because of that does not share the newer models tendency to integrate switch asicsif you need a switch at 10g i suggest you CRS317-1G-16S+RM, very well tested on many scenarios and good support of hardware accelerated featureshttps://help.mikrotik.com/docs/display/ ... res-Modelshttps://help.mikrotik.com/docs/display/ ... 4000Series

---
```

## Response 2
I bought this thing. It has 25G interfaces to be a typical bridge, but there is no way to transfer even 10G in bridge mode. Is this some kind of joke? ---

## Response 3
I bought this thing. It has 25G interfaces to be a typical bridge, but there is no way to transfer even 10G in bridge mode. Is this some kind of joke?You bought router which happens to have 2x 25Gbps ports (and some others). Official test results tell that thing canrouteat speeds between 5Gbps and 20Gbps depending on amount of config. Which is fine if you want to use thing as "router on a stick" ... and with MSRP of around $600 price of "surplus" 1Gbps RJ45 ports is negligible. If you want to use the thing as router between multiple gigabit networks, each connected to distinct port, then you have necessary ports ... and cumulative routing speed is still adequate.However, if you want to use the thing as "typical bridge", then ... sorry, you chose wrong device. "typical bridge" is a switch, and MT calls those "CRSxxx". There are a fewswitcheswhich have multiple 25/40/100 Gbps ports and can do "typical bridge" at wire speed. ---

## Response 4
I bought this thing. It has 25G interfaces to be a typical bridge, but there is no way to transfer even 10G in bridge mode. Is this some kind of joke?You bought router which happens to have 2x 25Gbps ports (and some others). Official test results tell that thing canrouteat speeds between 5Gbps and 20Gbps depending on amount of config. Which is fine if you want to use thing as "router on a stick" ... and with MSRP of around $600 price of "surplus" 1Gbps RJ45 ports is negligible.You are mixing both 2004's together.The 12 SFP+ model has two 25G and 12 SFP+ ports, all of which traverse the CPU. I did find the 25G ports use less CPU than the 10G ports, and was able to get 20Gbps full duplex with practically no configuration, both routing and bridging (FastPath for both). Its sweet spot is really for routing 3-5Gbps between a bunch of multigig legs of the network (using more than 1Gbps but not a full 10), especially bursty traffic. I have a pair acting as redundant edge aggregation routers prior to feeding the traffic to a CGNAT box.The other model has two 10G ports and two switch chips for 8x 1GBE ports. Similar throughput limitations due to CPU, but at least your devices can talk at Layer 2 at wire speed on the gigabit ports. A lot of providers use them as edge routers feeding a couple hundred customers at a site. ---